README.md, before:

# CV-Crowd-Counting
From Real to Synthetic Database

## How to configure
Open `Counting-ICCV-DSSINet` folder in a terminal window.

### Configure the virtual environment
- make a new virtualenv:
	> `virtualenv <name>`
- activate the virtualenv:
	> `source <name>/bin/activate`
- install all the packages from the `requirements.txt` file:
	> `pip install -r requirements.txt`
- install CUDA packages:
	> `pip install torch==1.3.1+cu92 torchvision==0.4.2+cu92 -f https://download.pytorch.org/whl/torch_stable.html` 

### Activate the virtual environment:
> `source <name>/bin/activate`

## How to run
Look at the GPU usages with the command `nvidia-smi`

### Training phase
Run the command `nohup ./train.sh &`

### Testing phase
Run the command `./test.sh ./saved_models/<dir_name>/<epoch>.h5`

---

## Documentation, guides and useful knowledge
### Paper and code
Read the following paper as reference, understand how it works, try to run it and understand what kind of input data does it need (characterize the dataset)
> http://visal.cs.cityu.edu.hk/research/residual_regression_counting/

Requirements:
- python2.7
- <del>pytorch</del> torchvision 0.4.1
- torch 1.3.0

To make it run
- download test set
- download pretrained models
- run python test.py

**N.B:** Use "Colab" by Google to run the simulations, if needed


### Unity and UMA
Install `Unity` (recommended version `2018.4`) and learn C#
> https://unity.com
> https://learn.unity.com/course/getting-started-with-unity

Install `UMA` library for people generation
> https://assetstore.unity.com/packages/3d/characters/uma-2-unity-multipurpose-avatar-35611?aid=1100l355n&gclid=Cj0KCQjw0brtBRDOARIsANMDykaNWyJiJ18jAVqh6TUAzHMUNTEH6-V_ukT6trf6sgWGr2dky--2d9gaAikrEALw_wcB&pubref=UnityAssets%2ADyn09%2A1723478829%2A67594162255%2A336275757769%2Ag%2A1t1%2A%2Ab%2Ac%2Agclid%3DCj0KCQjw0brtBRDOARIsANMDykaNWyJiJ18jAVqh6TUAzHMUNTEH6-V_ukT6trf6sgWGr2dky--2d9gaAikrEALw_wcB&utm_source=aff

Setup `Visual Studio Code` for code auto-completion using THIS guide:
> https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/other/unity

Useful video to create UMA characters:
> https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KJopeYPw7VI

Useful guide to use instantiation scripts
> https://docs.unity3d.com/Manual/InstantiatingPrefabs.html

Useful guide to successful create lists of GameObjects
> https://answers.unity.com/questions/1396614/how-cound-instantiate-all-objcest-in-a-list.html

Give a look to a complete project if we need some particular snippet of code
> https://github.com/albertoxamin/HeterogenousCameraNetwork


### SSH to remote Ubuntu machine
> IP: 192.168.165.4

> user: massimoclementi

> pw: massimo!clementi

Command to run to access to SSH (with `Pulse Secure`):
> ssh -Y massimoclementi@192.168.165.4

To copy from local to remote (-r is for folders):
> scp -r path_to_send massimoclementi@192.168.165.4:/destination_path/

Automatic login via SSH keys:
- generate a rsa keypar: `ssh-keygen`
- copy the key on the remote machine: `ssh-copy-id userid@hostname`
- now you can login without password


### Virtualenv and running
Virtualenv guide
> https://virtualenv.pypa.io/en/latest/userguide/#usage

Moving virtualenv and creating requirements.txt
> https://stackoverflow.com/questions/6628476/renaming-a-virtualenv-folder-without-breaking-it

AWK and format printing
> https://stackoverflow.com/questions/14517930/print-a-comma-except-on-the-last-line-in-awk

Commit message:

Auto-cleanup junk files in test/train scripts + README update

README.md, after:

# CV-Crowd-Counting
From Real to Synthetic Database

## How to configure
Open `Counting-ICCV-DSSINet` folder in a terminal window.

### Configure the virtual environment
- make a new virtualenv:
	> `virtualenv <name>`
- activate the virtualenv:
	> `source <name>/bin/activate`
- install all the packages from the `requirements.txt` file:
	> `pip install -r requirements.txt`
- install CUDA packages:
	> `pip install torch==1.3.1+cu92 torchvision==0.4.2+cu92 -f https://download.pytorch.org/whl/torch_stable.html` 

### Activate the virtual environment:
> `source <name>/bin/activate`

### Configure synthetic dataset
The custom synthetic dataset in the repository is made of several images generated with Unity and contains both `.jpg` images and `.txt` ground-truth files, with the coordinates of the heads.

To test/train with the given dataset first we need to generate the `.mat` ground-truth files running the matlab scripts `generate_gt` in the `train_data` and `test_data` folders.

## How to run
Look at the GPU usages with the command `nvidia-smi`

### Training phase
Run the command `nohup ./train.sh &`

### Testing phase
Run the command `./test.sh ./saved_models/<dir_name>/<epoch>.h5`

---

## Documentation, guides and useful knowledge
### Paper and code
First NN
> http://visal.cs.cityu.edu.hk/research/residual_regression_counting/

Requirements:
- python2.7
- <del>pytorch</del> torchvision 0.4.1
- torch 1.3.0

To make it run
- download test set
- download pretrained models
- run python test.py

**N.B:** Use "Colab" by Google to run the simulations, if needed

Second NN
> https://github.com/Legion56/Counting-ICCV-DSSINet


### Unity and UMA
Install `Unity` (recommended version `2018.4`) and learn C#
> https://unity.com
> https://learn.unity.com/course/getting-started-with-unity

Install `UMA` library for people generation
> https://assetstore.unity.com/packages/3d/characters/uma-2-unity-multipurpose-avatar-35611?aid=1100l355n&gclid=Cj0KCQjw0brtBRDOARIsANMDykaNWyJiJ18jAVqh6TUAzHMUNTEH6-V_ukT6trf6sgWGr2dky--2d9gaAikrEALw_wcB&pubref=UnityAssets%2ADyn09%2A1723478829%2A67594162255%2A336275757769%2Ag%2A1t1%2A%2Ab%2Ac%2Agclid%3DCj0KCQjw0brtBRDOARIsANMDykaNWyJiJ18jAVqh6TUAzHMUNTEH6-V_ukT6trf6sgWGr2dky--2d9gaAikrEALw_wcB&utm_source=aff

Setup `Visual Studio Code` for code auto-completion using THIS guide:
> https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/other/unity

Useful video to create UMA characters:
> https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KJopeYPw7VI

Useful guide to use instantiation scripts
> https://docs.unity3d.com/Manual/InstantiatingPrefabs.html

Useful guide to successful create lists of GameObjects
> https://answers.unity.com/questions/1396614/how-cound-instantiate-all-objcest-in-a-list.html

Give a look to a complete project if we need some particular snippet of code
> https://github.com/albertoxamin/HeterogenousCameraNetwork


### SSH to remote Ubuntu machine
> IP: 192.168.165.4

> user: massimoclementi

> pw: massimo!clementi

Command to run to access to SSH (with `Pulse Secure`):
> ssh -Y massimoclementi@192.168.165.4

To copy from local to remote (-r is for folders):
> scp -r path_to_send massimoclementi@192.168.165.4:/destination_path/

Automatic login via SSH keys:
- generate a rsa keypar: `ssh-keygen`
- copy the key on the remote machine: `ssh-copy-id userid@hostname`
- now you can login without password


### Virtualenv and running
Virtualenv guide
> https://virtualenv.pypa.io/en/latest/userguide/#usage

Moving virtualenv and creating requirements.txt
> https://stackoverflow.com/questions/6628476/renaming-a-virtualenv-folder-without-breaking-it

AWK and format printing
> https://stackoverflow.com/questions/14517930/print-a-comma-except-on-the-last-line-in-awk
